---
title: "2025-06-28 Fire Model Update"
date: 2025-06-28
draft: false
---

June 27, 2025

As of this morning, 26 large uncontained fires are being suppressed across the country, and an additional 48 being managed with strategies other than full suppression, mostly in Alaska. Nearly 6,000 wildland firefighters and support personnel are assigned to incidents across the United States.

In addition to U.S. wildfire response, three incident management teams, two incident management teams, six hotshot crews, and 75 overhead personnel are currently assigned to critical fire suppression efforts in Canada. This international coordination highlights the interconnectedness of fire, weather, and smoke, as well as the importance of working together to meet fire challenges wherever they arise. See International Support for more information. 

Several geographic areas in the U.S. are seeing hot, dry conditions and dry fuels, increasing the potential for new ignitions and large fire growth. See fuels and fire behavior advisories from the National Interagency Coordination Center (NICC). 

This week is National Lightning Safety Awareness Week, and it’s important to be aware of the hazards lightning can pose to wildland firefighters. The National Wildfire Coordinating Group’s 6 minutes for Safety information on Lightning Awareness and Thunderstorm Safety for wildland firefighters has great tips to stay safe.

The 2025 National Fire Year Themes remind us that it takes all of us, firefighters, land managers, community members, and visitors, to keep public lands and communities safe. Whether through innovation, collaboration, or prevention, we all play a role in creating a safer, more fire-adapted future.
